---
layout: post
title: "Cheats"
categories: game-mechanics
---

### Cheat codes

A set of 11 cheat codes appears in the game code.

To enter a cheat, type it on the keyboard (not case sensitive), hitting the
Return key before and after the code. You can chain together multiple codes this
way.

Bjork
: Voice test. Hit A-U to test one of the 21 voice samples. There is a bug: it
doesn't validate for keys below A, so you get interesting results pressing a
number key: if you press 1, it asks for disk &Sigma; Press space to exit.

ICBM
: Give 4 of each missile and 4 spy satellites to the currently selected
asteroid, whether it belongs to you, an alien, or nobody. Limited to 4 because
aliens are capped to 5 of each missile, so this way it's safe even if the alien
builds one right after you hit the cheat. Of course, aliens can't use spy
satellites as they have no satellite silo, and an empty asteroid full of
missiles will probably be cleared when you colonize it.

Iceman
: Freezes all asteroid movement. Use again to restore movement again.

Lemings
: Add 50 population to the current asteroid, regardless of who owns it.

Loadsadosh
: Give 100,000 credits. Around 0x1a7fa in the game executable _playk240_
(v1.886) you will see the number <code>000186a0</code>. Hex edit that to
<code>000f4240</code>. Now it will instead give 1 million. The cap is 9,999,999
(one less than 10 million).

NASA
: Create a ship at the current location. It has random hardpoints, like a ship
acquired via reinforcements. Such a ship will always have a weapon in its first
hardpoint to ensure it doesn't accidentally generate an unarmed ship. It will
also never generate a ship with a Static Inducer or Warp Generator.

Noises
: Sound test. Press A-W to test one of the in-game noises. Unlike the Bjork
cheat, this correctly validates its inputs.

Panel
: Extracts a useful set of buttons. The buttons don't show until the screen is
refreshed, but the easiest way to do this is to tap left and right to rotate the
asteroid and back.

Skyscraper
: The build time of all Terran buildings is reduced to one day. Doesn't affect
buildings already under construction.

Telescope
: You can see all asteroids. The game still doesn't register that you've spotted
them, however. 

Tracey
: Toggle voice on/off.

Widget
: Toggle which blueprints you own. This is a bother because even though you gain
every blueprint you didn't already have, you lose every blueprint you already
had, and they're usually good ones so you have to buy them back. Clicking on the
Sci-Tek button when you own every blueprint does nothing.
